 Language acquisition is a complex task, in which many heterogeneous sources of information may be useful. In this paper, we investigated whether contextual semantic information could be of help when learning phonetic categories. We found that this contextual information can improve phonetic learning performance considerably, especially in situations where there is a high degree of phonetic ambiguity in the word-forms that learners hear. This suggests that previous models that have ignored semantic information may have underestimated the information that is available to infants. Our model illustrates one way in which language learners might harness the rich information that is present in the world without first needing to acquire a full inventory of word meanings. The contextual semantic information that the TLD model tracks is similar to that potentially used in other linguistic learning tasks. Theories of cross-situational word learning ( 40 ; 53 ) assume that sensitivity to situational co-occurrences between words and non-linguistic contexts is a precursor to learning the meanings of individual words. Under this view, contextual semantics is available to infants well before they have acquired large numbers of semantic minimal pairs. However, recent experimental evidence indicates that learners do not always retain detailed information about the referents that are present in a scene when they hear a word ( 27 ; 49 ) . This evidence poses a direct challenge to theories of cross-situational word learning. Our account does not necessarily require learners to track co-occurrences between words and individual objects, but instead focuses on more abstract information about salient events and topics in the environment; it will be important to investigate to what extent infants encode this information and use it in phonetic learning. Regardless of the specific way in which infants encode semantic information, our method of adding this information by using LDA topics from transcript data was shown to be effective. This method is practical because it can approximate semantic information without relying on extensive manual annotation. The LD model extended the phonetic categorization task by adding word contexts; the TLD model presented here goes even further, adding larger situational contexts. Both forms of top-down information help the low-level task of classifying acoustic signals into phonetic categories, furthering a holistic view of language learning with interaction across multiple levels.