 We have presented a method of deriving abstract denotation from DCS trees, which enables logical inference on DCS, and we developed a textual inference system based on the framework. Experimental results have shown the power of the representation that allows both strict inference as on FraCaS data and robust reasoning as on RTE data. Exploration of an appropriate meaning representation for querying and reasoning on knowledge bases has a long history. Description logic, being less expressive than FOL but featuring more efficient reasoning, is used as a theory base for Semantic Web [] . Ideas similar to our framework, including the use of sets in a representation that benefits efficient reasoning, are also found in description logic and knowledge representation community [] . To our knowledge, however, their applications to logical inference beyond the use for database querying have not been much explored in the context of NLP. The pursue of a logic more suitable for natural language inference is not new. For instance, has implemented a model of natural logic [] . While being computationally efficient, various inference patterns are out of the scope of their system. Much work has been done in mapping natural language into database queries [] . Among these, the ( u'\u039b' -)DCS [] framework defines algorithms that transparently map a labeled tree to a database querying procedure. Essentially, this is because DCS trees restrict the querying process to a very limited subset of possible operations. Our main contribution, the abstract denotation of DCS trees, can thus be considered as an attempt to characterize a fragment of FOL that is suited for both natural language inference and transparent syntax-semantics mapping, through the choice of operations and relations on sets. We have demonstrated the utility of logical inference on DCS through the RTE task. A wide variety of strategies tackling the RTE task have been investigated [] , including the comparison of surface strings [] , syntactic and semantic structures [] , semantic vectors [] and logical representations [] . Acquisition of basic knowledge for RTE is also a huge stream of research [] . These previous works include various techniques for acquiring and incorporating different kinds of linguistic and world knowledge, and further fight against the knowledge bottleneck problem, e.g. by back-off to shallower representations. Logic-based RTE systems employ various approaches to bridge knowledge gaps. proposes features from a model builder; proposes an abduction process; shows handcrafted rules could drastically improve the performance of a logic-based RTE system. As such, our current RTE system is at a proof-of-concept stage, in that many of the above techniques are yet to be implemented. Nonetheless, we would like to emphasize that it already shows performance competitive to state-of-the-art systems on one data set (RTE5). Other directions of our future work include further exploitation of the new semantic representation. For example, since abstract denotations are readily suited for data querying, they can be used to verify newly generated assumptions by fact search in a database. This may open a way towards a hybrid approach to RTE wherein logical inference is intermingled with large scale database querying. This research was supported by the Todai Robot Project at National Institute of Informatics.