 In this paper we proposed a method for automatic detection of cognates based on orthographic alignment. We employed the Needleman-Wunsch algorithm [ 29 ] for sequence alignment widely-used in computational biology and we used aligned pairs of words to extract rules for lexical changes occurring when words enter new languages. We applied our method on an automatically extracted dataset of cognates for four pairs of languages. As future work, we plan to extend our method on a few levels. In this paper we used a very simple substitution matrix for the alignment algorithm, but the method can be adapted to integrate historical information regarding language evolution. The substitution matrix for the alignment algorithm can be customized with language-specific information, in order to reflect the probability of a character to change into another. An important achievement in this direction belongs to Delmestri and Cristianini ( 2010 ) , who introduced PAM-like matrices, linguistic-inspired substitution matrices which are based on information regarding orthographic changes. We plan to investigate the contribution of using this type of substitution matrices for our method. We intend to investigate other approaches to string alignment, such as local alignment [ 33 ] , and other learning algorithms for discriminating between cognates and non-cognates. We plan to extend our analysis with more language-specific features, where linguistic knowledge is available. First, we intend to use the part of speech as an additional feature. We assume that some orthographic changes are dependent on the part of speech of the words. Secondly, we want to investigate whether accounting for the common ancestor language influences the results. We are interested to find out if the orthographic rules depend on the source language, or if they are rather specific to the target language. Finally, we plan to make a performance comparison on cognate pairs versus word-etymon pairs and to investigate false friends [ 27 ] . We further intend to adapt our method for cognate detection to a closely related task, namely cognate production, i.e., given an input word w , a related language L and a set of learned rules for orthographic changes, to produce the cognate pair of w in L .