 In this paper, we presented a completely unsupervised method to detect word sense changes by analyzing millions of digitized books archived spanning several centuries. In particular, we constructed DT networks over eight different time windows, clustered these networks and compared these clusters to identify the emergence of novel senses. The performance of our method has been evaluated manually as well as by comparison with WordNet and a list of slang words. Through manual evaluation we found that the algorithm could correctly identify 60.4% birth cases from a set of 48 random samples and 57% split/join cases from a set of 21 randomly picked samples. Quite strikingly, we observe that (i) in 44% cases the birth of a novel sense is attested by WordNet, (ii) in 46% cases the split of an older sense is signalled on comparison with WordNet and (iii) in 43% cases the join of two senses is attested by WordNet. These results might have strong lexicographic implications u'\u2013' even if one goes by very moderate estimates almost half of the words would be candidate entries in WordNet if they were not already part of it. This method can be extremely useful in the construction of lexico-semantic networks for low-resource languages, as well as for keeping lexico-semantic resources up to date in general. Future research directions based on this work are manifold. On one hand, our method can be used by lexicographers in designing new dictionaries where candidate new senses can be semi-automatically detected and included, thus greatly reducing the otherwise required manual effort. On the other hand, this method can be directly used for various NLP/IR applications like semantic search, automatic word sense discovery as well as disambiguation. For semantic search, taking into account the newer senses of the word can increase the relevance of the query result. Similarly, a disambiguation engine informed with the newer senses of a word can increase the efficiency of disambiguation, and recognize senses uncovered by the inventory that would otherwise have to be wrongly assigned to covered senses. In addition, this method can be also extended to the u'\u2018' NNP u'\u2019' part-of-speech (i.e., named entities) to identify changes in role of a person/place. Furthermore, it would be interesting to apply this method to languages other than English and to try to align new senses of cognates across languages.