 We have shown that objective adjectives are most likely to modify concrete nouns, and that non-literal combinations can emerge when this principle is violated (Section 3). Indeed, the occurrence of an adjective with a more abstract noun than those it typically modifies is a strikingly consistent indicator of metaphoricity (Table 2). In addition, we showed that both concreteness and subjectivity improve the automatic classification of adjective-noun pairs according to compositionality or modification type (Section 4). Importantly, a classifier with both subjectivity and concreteness features outperforms concreteness-only classifiers, including those proposed in previous work. The results underline the relevance of both subjectivity and concreteness to lexical and phrasal semantics, and their application to language processing tasks. We hypothesize that concreteness and subjectivity are fundamental to human language processing because language is precisely the conveyance of information about the world from one party to another. In decoding this signal, it is clearly informative to understand to what extent the information refers directly to the world, and also to what extent it reports a fact versus an opinion. We believe these dimensions will ultimately prove essential for computational systems aiming to replicate human performance in interpreting language. As the results suggest, they may be particularly important for capturing the intricacies of semantic composition and thus extending representations beyond the lexeme. Of course, two dimensions alone are not sufficient to reflect all of the subtleties of adjective and noun semantics. For instance, our model classifies white spirit , a transparent cleaning product, as non-literal, since the lexical concreteness score does not allow for strong noun polysemy. Further, it makes no allowance for wider sentential context, which can be an important clue to modification type in such cases. We aim to address these limitations in future work by integrating subjectivity and concreteness with conventially acquired semantic representations, and, ultimately, models that integrate input corresponding to the perceptual modalities.